---
title: "PHANGS science"
layout: post
post-image: "/assets/images/Logo_PHANGS_final.png"
description: "A summary of papers I am involved in within the PHANGS (Physics at High Angular Resolution in Nearby Galaxies) collaboration. | Logo credit: PHANGS."   
tags:
- ISM
- star formation
- observations
---

List of papers in alphabetical order: 
* [SF laws and SFEs in 80 nearby galaxies](#star-formation-laws-and-efficiencies-across-80-nearby-galaxies)
* [Σ<sub>SFR</sub> − Σ<sub>mol</sub> − Σ<sub>∗</sub> plane variations with environment](#variationspaper)


-----------
##  Star Formation Laws and Efficiencies across 80 Nearby Galaxies ##

We measure empirical relationships between the local star formation rate (SFR) and properties of the star-forming molecular gas on 1.5 kpc scales across 80 nearby galaxies. These relationships, commonly referred to as "star formation laws," aim at predicting the local SFR surface density from various combinations of molecular gas surface density, galactic orbital time, molecular cloud free fall time, and the interstellar medium dynamical equilibrium pressure. Leveraging a multiwavelength database built for the Physics at High Angular Resolution in Nearby Galaxies (PHANGS) survey, we measure these quantities consistently across all galaxies and quantify systematic uncertainties stemming from choices of SFR calibrations and the CO-to-H2 conversion factors. The star formation laws we examine show 0.3-0.4 dex of intrinsic scatter, among which the molecular Kennicutt-Schmidt relation shows a ~10% larger scatter than the other three. The slope of this relation ranges β ≈ 0.9-1.2, implying that the molecular gas depletion time remains roughly constant across the environments probed in our sample. The other relations have shallower slopes (β ≈ 0.6-1.0), suggesting that the star formation efficiency per orbital time, the star formation efficiency per free fall time, and the pressure-to-SFR surface density ratio (i.e., the feedback yield) vary systematically with local molecular gas and SFR surface densities. Last but not least, the shapes of the star formation laws depend sensitively on methodological choices. Different choices of SFR calibrations can introduce systematic uncertainties of at least 10%-15% in the star formation law slopes and 0.15-0.25 dex in their normalization, while the CO-to-H2 conversion factors can additionally produce uncertainties of 20%-25% for the slope and 0.10-0.20 dex for the normalization.

*Sun, Jiayi; Leroy, Adam K.; Ostriker, Eve C.; Meidt, Sharon; Rosolowsky, Erik; Schinnerer, Eva; Wilson, Christine D.; Utomo, Dyas; Belfiore, Francesco; Blanc, Guillermo A.; Emsellem, Eric; Faesi, Christopher; Groves, Brent; Hughes, Annie; Koch, Eric W.; Kreckel, Kathryn; Liu, Daizhong; Pan, Hsi-An; Pety, Jérôme; Querejeta, Miguel; Razza, Alessandro; Saito, Toshiki; Sardone, Amy; Usero, Antonio; Williams, Thomas G.; Bigiel, Frank; Bolatto, Alberto D.; Chevance, Mélanie; Dale, Daniel A.; Gensior, Jindra; Glover, Simon C. O.; Grasha, Kathryn; Henshaw, Jonathan D.; Jiménez-Donaire, María J.; Klessen, Ralf S.; Kruijssen, J. M. Diederik; Murphy, Eric J.; Neumann, Lukas; Teng, Yu-Hsuan and Thilker, David A.*

The Astrophysical Journal Letters, 2023, 945, 2, L19


[ADS](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/023ApJ...945L..19S) / [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.12267)

----------
<h2 id="variationspaper">  Variations in the Σ<sub>SFR</sub> − Σ<sub>mol</sub> − Σ<sub>∗</sub> plane across galactic environments in PHANGS galaxies  </h2>

Aims: There exists some consensus that the stellar mass surface density (Σ<sub>∗</sub>) and molecular gas mass surface density (Σ<sub>mol</sub>) are the main quantities responsible for locally setting the star formation rate. This regulation is inferred from locally resolved scaling relations between these two quantities and the star formation rate surface density (Σ<sub>SFR</sub>), which have been extensively studied in a wide variety of works. However, the universality of these relations is debated. Here, we probe the interplay between these three quantities across different galactic environments at a spatial resolution of 150 pc.
Methods: We performed a hierarchical Bayesian linear regression to find the best set of parameters C<sub>∗</sub>, C<sub>mol</sub>, and C<sub>norm</sub> that describe the star-forming plane conformed by Σ<sub>∗</sub>, Σ<sub>mol</sub>, and Σ<sub>SFR</sub>, such that logΣ<sub>SFR</sub> = C<sub>∗</sub>logΣ<sub>∗</sub> + C<sub>mol</sub>logΣ<sub>mol</sub> + C<sub>norm</sub>. We also explored variations in the determined parameters across galactic environments, focusing our analysis on the C<sub>∗</sub> and C<sub>mol</sub> slopes.
Results: We find signs of variations in the posterior distributions of C<sub>∗</sub> and C<sub>mol</sub> across different galactic environments. The dependence of Σ<sub>SFR</sub> on Σ<sub>∗</sub> spans a wide range of slopes, with negative and positive values, while the dependence of Σ<sub>SFR</sub> on Σ<sub>mol</sub> is always positive. Bars show the most negative value of C<sub>∗</sub> (−0.41), which is a sign of longer depletion times, while spiral arms show the highest C<sub>∗</sub> among all environments (0.45). Variations in C<sub>mol</sub> also exist, although they are more subtle than those found for C<sub>∗</sub>.
Conclusions: We conclude that systematic variations in the interplay of Σ<sub>∗</sub>, Σ<sub>mol</sub>, and Σ<sub>SFR</sub> across different galactic environments exist at a spatial resolution of 150 pc, and we interpret these variations to be produced by an additional mechanism regulating the formation of stars that is not captured by either Σ<sub>∗</sub> or Σ<sub>mol</sub>. Studying environmental variations in single galaxies, we find that these variations correlate with changes in the star formation efficiency across environments, which could be linked to the dynamical state of the gas that prevents it from collapsing and forming stars, or to changes in the molecular gas fraction. 

*Pessa, I.; Schinnerer, E.; Leroy, A. K.; Koch, E. W.; Rosolowsky, E.; Williams, T. G.; Pan, H. -A.; Schruba, A.; Usero, A.; Belfiore, F.; Bigiel, F.; Blanc, G. A.; Chevance, M.; Dale, D.; Emsellem, E.; Gensior, J.; Glover, S. C. O.; Grasha, K.; Groves, B.; Klessen, R. S.; Kreckel, K.; Kruijssen, J. M. D.; Liu, D.; Meidt, S. E.; Pety, J.; Querejeta, M.; Saito, T.; Sanchez-Blazquez, P. and Watkins, E. J.*

Astronomy & Astrophysics, 2022, 663, id.A61


[ADS](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2022A%26A...663A..61P) / [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2203.11971)

----------
